When I was little, I loved butterflies. I remember literally spending hours in my backyard with a pink net, patiently waiting for a butterfly to land, so I could swoop one up. However, in actuality, I pretty much only caught common moths, and my sister was scared of them, so that didn't work out the best for me. The term was coined in 1960 by a meteorologist named Edward Lorenz. And the idea can be defined as a phenomenon that occurs when two or more objects are in the same place at the same time. "I. d’ve imagined how impactful butterflies would be on my life," Lorenz said. The flap of a butterfly’s wings can cause a tornado. The first time I heard of this, I thought it was crazy. That is, until I realized how big of an impact this simple concept could have on my own life. Every small thing in my life is, for some reason, 1000 times more important. I save all of my work until the last minute because I’m so scared that it won’t be perfect. Ask me to pick a restaurant, I promise you, you've never seen anybody sweat more in your entire life. "I was really intrigued by it, and maybe this was just because it had butterfly in the name, I won’t even lie to you" "The more I read on it, the more I got sucked in, and I realized this is actually an incredibly complex idea that deals with one of my biggest fears" The idea of butterfly effects is grounded in science, the science that Edward Lorenz created to support it. "Nature is infinitely connected and intertwined, so therefore, any tiny thing can cause anything else to happen and well, everything just kind of Butterfly effects," he says. "I could either keep pushing back against this inevitable outcome that was just kind of part of life, or I could kind of  melt into it and hope to find some peace," he says. "The butterfly effects and applying it to one’s life can be called a lot of things. It could be called living fearlessly," he adds. Some days my brain would exhaust me and it was that exhaustion that pushed me to finally give in. ething as simple as just not overthinking. But I was never able to just listen to those things as advice for how to live my life. So why was this any different? I don't really know. The butterfly effect and thinking of the butterfly’s wings every time I question something in my own head, made me realize how little every little decision that I make can affect my life. Because if anything can cause everything anyways, why shouldn’t I just live the way I want? And this was honestly freeing. It made me feel lighter. "I had a rationale for myself when I began to overthink. This idea that I found while just scrolling on my phone one day, it changed my life, and by quieting down my head, it opened up my heart," she said. "All the things I had sweat over previously, actually mattered" When he was little, my mom used to tell my siblings and me to follow our little voice. So, naturally, I pictured a man living in my stomach telling me what to do. As I got older, I found that it became more and more difficult to listen to this so-calledlittle voice. And eventually, obviously, the little man went away. The butterfly effect saved me from days of misery, trapped and stuck inside my own head. tterfly effects principles and philosophy to my own life allowed the little voice to be more amplified than ever. And I sincerely hope it can do the same thing for some of you guys here today. Thank you so much.